1) processRegistry.ts isn’t “enterprise-level” if you do it lean

The doc frames registry + ProcessLayout as big architecture. It can be overengineering if it generates routes and becomes a mini-framework.

But a thin registry is often worth it even at ~5 flows because you keep adding flows and variants:

Lean registry = one file that prevents duplication:

processId → title

optional view page path

required entitlements (if any)

“dirty guard required?” boolean

optional analytics event name

This isn’t about “scaling to enterprise.” It’s about reducing drift when you have lots of similar flows (and you do).

✅ My recommendation:
Adopt a minimal registry, but skip route generation.
It’s a middle path that gives consistency without complexity.

2) ESLint restrictions: I agree with skipping “hard bans,” but you still want some guardrail

The doc is right that strict “ban useLocation outside folder” can be annoying.

But the failure mode you’re trying to prevent is real:

Replit adds a new link with raw navigation

It bypasses your unsaved guard

UX breaks silently

✅ My recommendation:
Don’t ban it globally. Do one of these “low friction” options:

Soft rule: add a lint warning (not error) for direct navigation imports, or

Restrict only in AppShell/nav components and process components, or

Add a tiny “grep check” script that flags new occurrences of direct navigation usage (and run it in npm run verify)

So you get guardrails without developer pain.

3) “npm run verify nice-to-have” — I disagree

TypeScript compiling on save is not a substitute for:

consistent lint rules

tests

build checks

scripts that catch drift (like “no direct navigate bypassing guard”)

Also: Replit Agent will sometimes introduce changes that compile but are inconsistent or bypass patterns.

✅ My recommendation:
Make npm run verify very small and fast, like:

npm run check

npm test (only your 3–5 smoke tests)

(optional) npm run lint

That’s low overhead and high value.

Blind spots in that document (important)
1) It doesn’t explicitly mention returnTo sanitization

This is both a UX and security issue:

returnTo should only accept internal paths (no https://... redirect tricks)

default fallback should be Today

Even if you “trust your own UI,” it’s still a best practice to sanitize.

2) It doesn’t address the browser back button + deep links

If a user starts a process and hits back:

should it close the overlay?

should it step backward within the process?

should it warn if dirty?

This is one of the top sources of “clunky” feelings if not handled consistently.

3) It doesn’t address multiple dirty sources

Example: user is in a process but Today has an auto-save journal field also dirty/saving.
Your guard needs to define:

which dirty state wins?

do you allow multiple registrations (stack), or single active guard?

4) Upload flows need special treatment

Vision board upload failing is a classic example: file uploads don’t behave like text autosaves.
Your guard needs to support:

upload in progress

upload failed

retry states

My “best version” recommendation (lean + durable)

If I had to set rules for you + Replit going forward:

Do now (high ROI, low effort)

Tight replit.md with a checklist for adding processes

Replit Skill that repeats those rules

3–5 smoke tests (returnTo, sanitize, safeNavigate blocks when dirty, deep link fallback)

Minimal npm run verify that runs check + tests

Optional: lean process registry (no route generation)

Defer

Route generation

Heavy wrappers

Strict lint bans

Suggested rewrite of your recommendation paragraph (stronger + safer)

Your last line is good (“ship features, not abstractions”), but I’d change it slightly:

“Ship features, but protect the core UX promise (return-to-origin + unsaved guard) with lightweight guardrails: replit.md + skill + 3–5 tests + a small verify script. Add a minimal process registry to prevent drift as the number of flows grows.”